.\" Copyright 2014 David Spencer, Baildon, West Yorkshire, U.K.
.\" All rights reserved.  For licence details, see the file 'LICENCE'.
.
.TH SLACKREPO.HINT 5 "2017-09-01" slackrepo-0.3
.
.
.
.SH NAME
.
.
.
\fBslackrepo.hint\fR \- slackrepo hintfile format
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.
.
\fB/etc/slackrepo/\fIID\fB/hintfiles/\fIprgnam\fB.hint
.PP
where \fIID\fR is 'SBo' by default.
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.
.
A \(dqhintfile\(dq is a file that supplements a SlackBuild's .info
file, for example to specify options and additional dependencies, to
override the version, downloads and md5sums, etc.
.
.PP
Each repository ID should have a local hintfiles directory, as
configured by the HINTDIR variable in the configuration file (see
\fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR). By default this will be
\fI/etc/slackrepo/ID/hintfiles\fR.
.
.PP
The local hintfiles directory can optionally contain a structure of
subdirectories that is the same as the subdirectories in the
SlackBuilds repository. For example, if the SBo repository's SlackBuild
file for wxPython is \fIlibraries/wxPython/wxPython.SlackBuild\fR, then
its hintfile would be
\fI/etc/slackrepo/SBo/hintfiles/libraries/wxPython/wxPython.hint\fR.
Alternatively, hintfiles can be placed in the top level directory, for
example \fI/etc/slackrepo/SBo/hintfiles/wxPython.hint\fR. A hintfile in
the top level directory takes precedence over a hintfile of the same
name in a subdirectory.
.
.PP
Each repository ID should also have a default hint directory for system
supplied hintfiles, as configured by the DEFAULT_HINTDIR variable in
the configuration file (see \fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR). For example, the
SlackBuilds.org default hintfiles for Slackware 14.1 are supplied in
the directory \fI/usr/share/slackrepo/SBo/default_hintfiles/14.1\fR .
The default hintfiles directory contains a structure of subdirectories
that is the same as the subdirectories in the SlackBuilds repository.
.
.PP
Local hintfiles always take precedence over default hintfiles. You can
disable the default hintfile directory completely by unsetting the
DEFAULT_HINTDIR variable.
.
.PP
The format of a hintfile is based on the format of
SlackBuilds.org .info files, but all the entries are optional, and any
unrecognised entries are ignored. Most SlackBuilds do not need
hintfiles, and most hintfiles will only have one or two variables.
.
.
.
.SS VERSION=\(dqnewversion\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint can be specified to attempt an automatic patch of the version
number in both the SlackBuild and info files. The automatic patch is
done by a simple text substitution. This often won't work (particularly
if the old version number is something like '1', or if the download URL
has not been patched correctly and you have not supplied a new download
URL in the hint file). The md5sum and/or sha256sum of the source
archive will not be checked, unless you have also supplied a new md5sum
and/or sha256sum in the hint file. The patched SlackBuild and info
files are not kept.
.
.
.SS DOWNLOAD=\(dqnew urls\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint redefines download URLs that replace the URLs specified in
the .info file, for example if you have also defined VERSION=, or if
the upstream URL has changed.
.
.PP
However, if specified as \fBDOWNLOAD=\(dqno\(dq\fR, this hint indicates
that the source needs to be downloaded manually (for example, because
of a licence agreement). If you have already downloaded the source into
the source cache, and if the md5sum is correct, then the package will
be built. Otherwise, a message will be displayed explaining what you
should do, and the package will be skipped.
.
.
.SS MD5SUM=\(dqnew md5sums\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint redefines md5sums that replace the md5sums specified in the
.info file, for example if you have also redefined VERSION=, or if the
upstream source archive has been changed.
.
.PP
However, if specified as \fBMD5SUM=\(dqno\(dq\fR, this hint indicates
that the source md5sums are not reliable (for example, because of an
unversioned archive) and should not be checked.
.
.
.SS SHA256SUM=\(dqsha256sums\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint specifies an sha256sum that will be checked (in addition to
any md5sum).
.
.
.SS DOWNLOAD_arch=\(dqnew urls\(dq and MD5SUM_arch=\(dqnew md5sums\(dq and SHA256SUM_arch=\(dqsha256sums\(dq
.
.
.PP
These hints redefine DOWNLOAD and MD5SUM, and specify SHA256SUM, as
above, for the specified arch.
.
.
.SS ADDREQUIRES=\(dqadditional dependencies\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint should define a list of dependencies, separated by spaces.
Dependencies in this list will be added to the dependencies defined by
the REQUIRES= list defined in the .info file. If the .info file
specifies %README%, you should set this hint (possibly as an empty
string) to stop slackrepo displaying a warning.
.
.
.SS DELREQUIRES=\(dqdependencies to ignore\(dq
.
.
.PP
To ignore dependencies in the REQUIRES= list, use this hint.
.
.
.SS OPTIONS=\(dqOPT1=yes OPT2=no ...\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint should define options described in the SlackBuild's README
file. Note that this is the only way in slackrepo that you can define
SlackBuild options.
.
.
.SS GROUPADD=\(dqgid:groupname ...\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint defines groups to be added on the host system. If a group
already exists, nothing will be done. If more than one group is to be
added, a space-separated list can be specified. Example:
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
GROUPADD=\(dq209:postgres\(dq
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SS USERADD=\(dquid:username[:controlargs...] ...\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint defines usernames to be added on the host system. If a
username already exists, nothing will be done. Optionally, additional
control arguments of the useradd command can be specified, separated by
colons, with the space between the control argument and its argument
omitted. If more than one username is required, a space-separated list
of specifications can be defined. Examples:
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
USERADD=\(dq209:postgres:-d/var/lib/pgsql\(dq
USERADD=\(dq270:smtpd:-g0:-r:-s/bin/false:-d/var/empty 271:smtpq:-r:-s/bin/false:-d/var/empty\(dq
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SS SKIP=\(dqyesno\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint can be specified if you want to skip the package when it
would otherwise be built, rebuilt, updated or removed. If the hint
isn't specified as SKIP=\(dqyes\(dq or SKIP=\(dqno\(dq, it will be
interpreted as \(dqyes\(dq, and the string will be displayed when the
build is skipped, so that you can put a helpful message into it, for
example:
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
SKIP=\(dqPlease remove the Slackware nc package before you build netcat-openbsd\(dq
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SS ARCH=\(dqarch\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint temporarily overrides the value of ARCH given in the
configuration file or environment. This hint is most useful for
SlackBuilds that repackage binaries.
.
.
.SS INSTALL=\(dqyesno\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint temporarily overrides the value of INSTALL given in the
configuration file or on the command line. Use this hint if you want a
specific package to be installed after it has been built (e.g.
nvidia-driver). Note that if the control argument --dry-run is
specified, this hint will be ignored.
.
.
.SS NUMJOBS=\(dq-j1\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint temporarily overrides the value of NUMJOBS given in the
configuration file or environment. Use this hint if the build process
fails when multiple 'make' jobs are used, so that the build will be
executed with MAKEFLAGS='-j1'.
.
.
.SS NOWARNING=\(dqExtended RE\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint suppresses slackrepo warnings that match the specified
extended regular expression. Multiple warnings can be suppressed by
using a suitable expression, for example:
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
NOWARNING=\(dq(Nonstandard directories|Unexpected owner/group)\(dq
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SS ANSWERS=\(dqstring\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint can be specified if the build process wants to read answers
to its questions during execution, for example concerning a licence
agreement. The string is piped into the SlackBuild's standard input, so
it should contain whatever will make the build process happy. Newlines
can be specified as \\n, for example
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
ANSWERS=\(dqok\\nyes\(dq
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SS CLEANUP=\(dqcommands\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint can be specified if the package needs extra cleanup when it
is uninstalled (e.g. packages that replace standard Slackware packages
or install kernel modules). The hint should define an appropriate shell
command line. to clean up after a kernel module is uninstalled:
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
CLEANUP=\(dqdepmod -a\(dq
.EE
.RE
.
.PP
For your convenience, slackrepo provides a command \fBs_reinstall\fR
that reinstalls the specified Slackware packages, for example:
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
CLEANUP=\(dqs_reinstall tetex tetex-doc\(dq
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SS PRAGMA=\(dqpragmas\(dq
.
.
.PP
This hint can be specified to perform one or more pragmas. \fBPragmas
are not guaranteed to work!\fR Multiple pragmas can be specified,
separated by spaces. The following pragmas are available:
.
.PP
\fBpython3\fR
.
.PP
Force python3 support: add python3 to the dependencies, set the
PYTHON3=”yes” option, and if necessary patch the SlackBuild to support
python3.
.
.PP
\fBkernelmodule\fR and \fBkernel\fR
.
.PP
Rebuild when the build host's kernel is upgraded; 'kernelmodule' also
causes depmod to be run when the package is uninstalled.
.
.PP
\fBmultilib_ldflags\fR
.
.PP
On a multilib host, attempt to patch the SlackBuild to specify LDFLAGS,
as described in SlackBuilds.org FAQ 18.
.
.PP
\fBwget\fR or \fBcurl\fR
.
.PP
Download with a fake wget or curl user agent string.
.
.PP
\fBdownload_basename\fR
.
.PP
Provide a symlink for source downloads using the URL's basename, for
the benefit of SlackBuilds that don't expect content-disposition to be
respected.
.
.PP
\fBneed_net\fR and \fBneed_X\fR
.
.PP
Do not block the network, and/or the X display, when building.
.
.PP
\fBx86arch=\fIarch\fR
.
.PP
When building on 32 bit x86, set the ARCH to \fIarch\fR.
.PP
\fBnoexport_ARCH\fR and \fBnoexport_BUILD\fR and \fBnoexport_TAG\fR
.
.PP
Set ARCH and/or BUILD and/or TAG by patching the SlackBuild instead of
exporting it to the environment.
.
.PP
\fBunset_ARCH\fR
.
.PP
Unset the value of ARCH, overriding the value given in the
configuration file or environment. Other variables can be specified
instead of ARCH, for example
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
PRAGMA=\(dqunset_DISTCC_HOSTS\(dq
.EE
.RE
.
.PP
\fBnoremove\fR
.
.PP
Do not remove (uninstall) packages before building the item. This is
particularly useful for gcc, glibc, etc.
.
.PP
\fBnofakeroot\fR
.
.PP
Override building the package as a non-root user with fakeroot. Build
the package as root, using \fBsudo\fR.
.
.PP
\fBno_make_test\fR
.
.PP
Patch the SlackBuild to comment out any 'make test' command.
.
.PP
\fBstubs-32\fR
.
.PP
Temporarily provide \fI/usr/include/gnu/stubs-32.h\fR as described in
the memtest86+ README and xen SlackBuild.
.
.PP
\fBabstar\fR
.
.PP
Patch the SlackBuild to use the tar command's \fI--absolute-names\fR
control argument. Use this if you get the error message
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
tar: Directory renamed before its status could be extracted
.EE
.RE
.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.
.
\fBslackrepo(8)\fR, \fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR, \fBinstallpkg(8)\fR,
\fBupgradepkg(8)\fR, \fBremovepkg(8)\fR, \fBpkgtool(8)\fR,
\fBslackpkg(8)\fR.
.
.
.
