.\" Copyright 2014 David Spencer, Baildon, West Yorkshire, U.K.
.\" All rights reserved.  For licence details, see the file 'LICENCE'.
.
.TH SLACKREPO.CONF 5 "2017-09-01" slackrepo-0.3
.
.
.
.SH NAME
.
.
.
\fBslackrepo.conf\fR \- repository configuration files for slackrepo
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.
.
\fB/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_\fIID\fB.conf\fR (where \fIID\fR is a
repository ID, for example, \fBSBo\fR)
.
.PP
\fB~/.genreprc\fR
.
.PP
\fB~/.slackreporc\fR
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.
.
\fBslackrepo(8)\fR reads configuration data from \fI~/.slackreporc\fR
and \fI~/.genreprc\fR and \fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR
.
.PP
These files contain assignments of configuration variables, one per
line, in the form
.
.PP
.RS
.EX
\fINAME=VALUE\fR
.EE
.RE
.
.PP
The files are 'sourced' by \fBbash\fR, so spaces are not permitted
either side of '='. Lines starting with '#' and empty lines are
ignored. Assigned values may optionally be enclosed in single or double
quotes. The strings %REPO%, %SLACKVER% and %ARCH% are automatically
replaced by the repo ID, Slackware version, and arch, respectively.
.
.PP
Any values specified in the configuration files are overridden by
environment variables or control arguments on the \fBslackrepo\fR
command line.  Values specified in \fI~/.slackreporc\fR and
\fI~/.genreprc\fR override values specified in
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR.
.
.PP
Note that all the examples below show the values that are set in the
supplied configuration file for the \fBSBo\fR (SlackBuilds.org)
repository ID.
.
.
.SS Default repo ID and configuration directory
.
.
.PP
The following configuration variables can be set only in
\fI~/.slackreporc\fR.
.
.TP
\fBREPO\fR
The default repo ID. This determines the configuration file
\fIslackrepo_ID.conf\fR from which other configuration variables will
be read. This variable can be set only in \fI~/.slackreporc\fR, but can
be overridden by the REPO environment variable or by the command line
option \fB--repo=ID\fR.
.IP
Example:
.EX
REPO=\(dqSBo\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBCONFIGDIR\fR
The configuration directory. This specifies an alternative directory to
be used instead of \fI/etc/slackrepo\fR to find the configuration
files. This variable can be set only in \fI~/.slackreporc\fR, but can
be overridden by the CONFIGDIR environment variable.
.IP
Example:
.EX
CONFIGDIR=\(dq/etc/slackrepo\(dq
.EE
.
.
.SS Repository filestore locations
.
.
.PP
The following configuration variables determine repository filestore
locations. These variables can be set in \fI~/.slackreporc\fR or
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR, or can be overridden by
environment variables.
.
.TP
\fBSBREPO\fR
Filestore location of the local SlackBuilds repository.
.IP
Example:
.EX
SBREPO=\(dq/var/lib/slackrepo/%REPO%/slackbuilds\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBSRCREPO\fR
Where to store cached sources. (You will need plenty of space.)
.IP
Example:
.EX
SRCREPO=\(dq/var/lib/slackrepo/%REPO%/source\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBPKGREPO\fR
Filestore location of the local package repository, i.e., where to
store built packages. (You will need plenty of space.)
.IP
Example:
.EX
PKGREPO=\(dq/var/lib/slackrepo/%REPO%/packages\(dq
.EE
.
.IP
If you intend to use the package repository with slackpkg+, you may
wish to change this path or symlink it to a location accessible by a
local web server (e.g., somewhere under \fI/var/www/htdocs/\fR).
.
.TP
\fBPKGBACKUP\fR
Where to keep backups. (You will need plenty of space.)
.IP
Example:
.EX
PKGBACKUP=\(dq/var/lib/slackrepo/%REPO%/backups/%SLACKVER%/%ARCH%\(dq
.EE
.IP
You can disable backups by commenting out or deleting this line.
.
.TP
\fBHINTDIR\fR
Where to find locally written hintfiles for this repository.
.IP
Example:
.EX
HINTDIR=\(dq/etc/slackrepo/%REPO%/hintfiles\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBDEFAULT_HINTDIR\fR
Where to find system-provided default hintfiles (these come in a
separate \fbslackrepo-hints\fR package).
.IP
Example:
.EX
DEFAULT_HINTDIR=\(dq/etc/slackrepo/%REPO%/default_hintfiles/%SLACKVER%\(dq
.EE
.IP
You can disable all the default hintfiles for this repository by
commenting out or deleting this line.
.
.TP
\fBLOGDIR\fR
Where to store log files.
.IP
Example:
.EX
LOGDIR=\(dq/var/log/slackrepo/%REPO%\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBDATABASE\fR
Where to keep the database for this repository.
.IP
Example:
.EX
DATABASE=\(dq/var/lib/slackrepo/%REPO%/database_%REPO%_%ARCH%.sqlite3\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBTMP\fR
Where to store temporary files. (You will need plenty of space.)
.IP
Example:
.EX
TMP=\(dq/tmp/%REPO%\(dq
.EE
.
.
.SS Building packages
.
.
.PP
The following configuration variables affect the building of packages.
These variables can be set in \fI~/.slackreporc or
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR, or can be overridden by
environment variables.
.
.TP
\fBSUBSTITUTE\fR
A space-separated list of dependency substitutions applied to all
SlackBuilds in this repository. Substitution of X by Y is written as
\fBX=>Y\fR. Deletion of X is written as \fB!X\fR. Spaces and commas
can be added for readability.
.IP
Example:
.EX
SUBSTITUTE=\(dqjdk => openjdk, jack_audio_connection_kit => jack2\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBNUMJOBS\fR
Number of make jobs to set in MAKEFLAGS (e.g., '-j2'). Leave blank to
have this dynamically controlled according to the number of processors
on the build host and the current load average.
.IP
Example:
.EX
NUMJOBS=''
.EE
.
.TP
\fBARCH\fR
Arch for built packages. Leave this blank to have the arch
automatically determined by the build host.
.IP
Example:
.EX
ARCH=''
.EE
.
.TP
\fBTAG\fR
Tag for built packages. If you are publishing packages from
SlackBuilds.org, please change \fBSBo\fR to something else (see
SlackBuilds.org FAQ, item 20).
.IP
Example:
.EX
TAG=\(dq_SBo\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBPKGTYPE\fR
Package compression type. This can be \fBtgz\fR (gzip compressed),
\fBtxz\fR (xz), \fBtbz\fR (bzip2), or \fBtlz\fR (lzma).
.IP
Example:
.EX
PKGTYPE=\(dqtgz\(dq
.EE
.
.
.SS Hooks
.
.
.PP
The following configuration variables are defined as bash arrays.
Multiple values can be specified between the parentheses, separated by
spaces.
.TP
\fBHOOK_START\fR
Specifies pathnames, commands or slackrepo hook functions to be run
before slackrepo starts processing. 
.IP
Example:
.EX
HOOK_START=( gitfetch_hook )
.EE
.
.TP
\fBHOOK_FINISH\fR
Specifies pathnames, commands or slackrepo hook functions to be run
after slackrepo finishes processing.
.IP
Example:
.EX
HOOK_FINISH=( genrepos_hook /usr/local/bin/rsync_my_repo )
.EE
.
.
.SS Defaults for control arguments
.
.
.PP
The configuration variables \fBVERBOSE\fR, \fBVERY_VERBOSE\fR,
\fBDRY_RUN\fR, \fBINSTALL\fR, \fBCHROOT\fR, \fBLINT\fR, \fBKEEP_TMP\fR,
\fBCOLOR\fR, \fBNICE\fR and \fBNOWARNING\fR set the defaults for
slackrepo's command line control arguments. These variables can be set
in \fI~/.slackreporc or \fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR.
.PP
Examples:
.IP
.EX
VERBOSE='n'
VERY_VERBOSE='n'
DRY_RUN='n'
INSTALL='n'
CHROOT='/'
LINT='n'
KEEP_TMP='n'
COLOR='auto'
NICE='5'
NOWARNING=''
.EE
.
.
.SS Calling gen_repos_files.sh
.
.
.PP
The following configuration variables relate to the optional use of
gen_repos_files.sh.  They can be set in \fI~/.slackreporc or
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR, or can be overridden by
environment variables.
.
.TP
\fBUSE_GENREPOS\fR
Whether to use \fIgen_repos_files.sh\fR. For \fBSBo\fR, the value
supplied is \fB0\fR (disabled). To enable it, change this to \fB1\fR.
.IP
Example:
.EX
USE_GENREPOS=0
.EE
.
.TP
\fBREPOSROOT=\(dq$PKGREPO\(dq\fR
Don't change this! it is needed so gen_repos_files.sh can find your
package repository.
.
.PP
The following gen_repos_files.sh configuration variables can be set in
\fI~/.genreprc\fR, \fI~/.slackreporc\fR, or
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR, or can be overridden by
environment variables.
.PP
If USE_GENREPOS is enabled, you must review and set correct values for
all these variables - the default values will not be sufficient.
.
.TP
\fBREPOSOWNER\fR
Repository maintainer.
.IP
Example:
.EX
REPOSOWNER=\(dqLocal administrator <root@localhost>\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBREPOSOWNERGPG\fR
The GPG key for the repository owner can contain a different string
than the value of $REPOSOWNER . If you leave $REPOSOWNERGPG empty, the
script will use the value you've set for $REPOSOWNER instead to search
the GPG keyfile.
.IP
Example:
.EX
REPOSOWNERGPG=\(dq\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBDL_URL\fR
Under what URL is the repository accessible.
.IP
Example:
.EX
DL_URL=\(dqhttp://localhost/pkgrepo/%REPO%/%SLACKVER%/%ARCH%\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBRSS_TITLE\fR
The title of the generated RSS feed.
.IP
Example:
.EX
RSS_TITLE=\(dqLocal SlackBuild Packages\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBRSS_ICON\fR
The logo picture used for the RSS feed.
.IP
Example:
.EX
RSS_ICON=\(dqhttp://www.slackware.com/~alien/graphics/blueorb.png\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBRSS_LINK\fR
The URL linked to when clicking on the logo.
.IP
Example:
.EX
RSS_LINK=\(dqfile://$REPOSROOT/ChangeLog.txt\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBRSS_CLURL\fR
URL to the full ChangeLog.txt.
.IP
Example:
.EX
RSS_CLURL=\(dqfile://$REPOSROOT/ChangeLog.txt\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBRSS_DESCRIPTION\fR
The descriptive text for the RSS feed.
.IP
Example:
.EX
RSS_DESCRIPTION=\(dqLocal SlackBuild Packages\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBRSS_FEEDMAX\fR
Maximum number of RSS feed entries to display.
.IP
Example:
.EX
RSS_FEEDMAX=15
.EE
.
.TP
\fBRSS_UUID\fR
The RSS generator must use a unique feed identifier. Generate one for
your feed by using the string returned by \(dquuidgen -t\(dq.
.IP
Example:
.EX
RSS_UUID=\(dqe8dc1000-8e8a-11e7-b78d-001e4fb494b2\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBGPGBIN\fR
Either use gpg or gpg2.
.IP
Example:
.EX
GPGBIN=\(dq/usr/bin/gpg\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBUSE_GPGAGENT\fR
Optionally use gpg-agent to cache the gpg passphrase instead of letting
the script keep it in the environment (note that if you define
USE_GPGAGENT=1 but gpg-agent is not running, you will get prompted for
a passphrase every single time gpg runs).
.IP
Example:
.EX
USE_GPGAGENT=0
.EE
.
.TP
\fBFOR_SLAPTGET\fR
Generate slack-requires, slack-suggests, and slack-conflicts lines in
the metadata files by setting FOR_SLAPTGET to \(dq1\(dq -- these lines
are used by the slapt-get package manager.
.IP
Example:
.EX
FOR_SLAPTGET=0
.EE
.
.TP
\fBFOLLOW_SYMLINKS\fR
Follow symlinks in case the repository has symlinks like 14.0 -> 13.37
indicating that one package works for those two Slackware releases. If
the script does _not_ follow symlinks, then the symlinks will appear in
the repository listing instead of the packages they point to.
.IP
Example:
.EX
FOLLOW_SYMLINKS=1
.EE
.
.TP
\fBREPO_SUBDIRS\fR
If the repository has separate package subdirectories (for separate
Slackware releases or architectures) then define them here. Separate
FILELIST.TXT, MANIFEST etc.. files will be created for all of them.
.IP
Example:
.EX
REPO_SUBDIRS=\(dq\(dq
.EE
.
.TP
\fBREPO_EXCLUDES\fR
If you want to exclude certain directories or files from being included
in the repository metadata, define them here (space-separated).
.IP
Example:
.EX
REPO_EXCLUDES=\(dq.htaccess\(dq
.EE
.
.
.SS Initial setup
.
.
.PP
The following configuration variables determine how the SlackBuilds
repository will be created if it does not already exist. These
variables are set in \fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR. Normally,
they are only used when \fBslackrepo\fR is run for the first time in an
empty repository.
.
.TP
\fBINIT_GITCLONE\fR
The remote git repository to be cloned.
.IP
Example:
.EX
INIT_GITCLONE='git://git.slackbuilds.org/slackbuilds'
.EE
.
.TP
\fBINIT_GITBRANCH\fR
The local git branch to be created, tracking the remote branch of the
same name.
.IP
Example:
.EX
INIT_GITBRANCH='%SLACKVER%'
.EE
.
.
.SS Environment variables
.
.
.PP
The slackrepo configuration file can be a useful place to set
environment variables for the build process. You can simply add export
commands at the end of the configuration file.
.
.PP
For example, you can add the following commands to compile everything
with clang instead of gcc (but please note, there are a few packages do
not build correctly with clang).
.
.IP
.EX
export CC=clang
export CXX=clang++
.EE
.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.
.
.PP
\fBslackrepo(8)\fR, \fBslackrepo.hint(5)\fR, \fBinstallpkg(8)\fR,
\fBupgradepkg(8)\fR, \fBremovepkg(8)\fR, \fBpkgtool(8)\fR,
\fBslackpkg(8)\fR.
.
.
.
