.\" Copyright 2014-2017 David Spencer, Baildon, West Yorkshire, U.K.
.\" All rights reserved.  For licence details, see the file 'LICENCE'.
.
.TH SLACKREPO 8 "2017-09-01" slackrepo-0.3
.
.
.
.SH NAME
.
.
.
\fBslackrepo\fR \- automated SlackBuild package building and repository maintenance
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.
.
\fBslackrepo build\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIITEM ...\fR]
.PP
\fBslackrepo rebuild\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIITEM\fR ...]
.PP
\fBslackrepo update\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIITEM\fR] ...
.PP
\fBslackrepo remove\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIITEM ...
.PP
\fBslackrepo revert\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIITEM ...
.PP
\fBslackrepo lint\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIITEM\fR ...]
.PP
\fBslackrepo install\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIITEM\fR ...]
.PP
\fBslackrepo info\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.
.
.PP
Slackrepo is a highly automated tool for Slackware users to manage
their own package repositories. It builds packages from a repository of
SlackBuilds (for example, a clone of SlackBuilds.org), and then outputs
the packages to a package repository.
.
.TP
\fBslackrepo\ build\fR
Builds packages from an input repository of SlackBuilds (for example, a
git clone of SlackBuilds.org), and then stores them in a package
repository. \fBadd\fR is accepted as a synonym of \fBbuild\fR.
.
.TP
\fBslackrepo\ rebuild\fR
Rebuilds packages that are already in the package repository.
.
.TP
\fBslackrepo\ update\fR
Builds, rebuilds and removes packages in the package repository,
according to changes in the SlackBuild repository.
.
.TP
\fBslackrepo\ remove\fR
Removes packages from the package repository.
.
.TP
\fBslackrepo\ revert\fR
Moves packages from the backup repository into the package repository,
and packages from the package repository into the backup repository.
\fBrestore\fR is accepted as a synonym of \fBrevert\fR.
.
.TP
\fBslackrepo\ lint\fR
Performs quality checks without performing a build. See the
\fB\-\-lint\fR control argument for a brief description of the checks
that can be performed.
.
.TP
\fBslackrepo\ install\fR
Installs a package on the host system, building first if necessary.
This command is equivalent to \fBbuild \-\-install\fR.
.
.TP
\fBslackrepo\ info\fR
Prints information about the system and specified repository,
configuration and options.
.
.TP
\fIITEM\fR
An item specifies a directory or a SlackBuild file in the SlackBuild
repository, and/or (in the \fBupdate\fR, \fBremove\fR and \fBrevert\fR
commands only) formerly in the SlackBuild repository. Shell-style globs
(wildcards) are allowed. If no items are specified, all directories in
the SlackBuild repository are processed (except in the remove and
revert commands, where it is mandatory to specify the items to be
removed).
.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-chroot\fI[=path]\fR
Construct and use a temporary chroot environment for each build process.
(Requires a Linux 3.18+ kernel with overlayfs.) The specified path will
be used to create the chroot (default '/'). This option has no effect
with the remove, revert and lint commands.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-color=always|auto|no\fR
Pass coloured output from cmake, clang, git, gcc, mono, waf etc. to
standard output if standard output is a terminal console
(\fB\-\-color=auto\fR), or pass colour unconditionally
(\fB\-\-color=always\fR), or do not pass colour (\fB\-\-color=no\fR).
The default is \fB\-\-color=auto\fR. The \fB\-\-color\fR option is
effective only if \fB\-\-verbose\fR is specified. \fB\-\-colour\fR is
accepted as a synonym of \fB\-\-color\fR.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Equivalent to \fB\-\-very\-verbose \-\-lint \-\-dry\-run
\-\-keep\-tmp\fR.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Builds and rebuilds will be performed, and removes and reverts will be
checked, but no changes will be made to the package repository. This
option conflicts with \fB\-\-preview\fR and \fB\-\-install\fR. This
option has no effect with the \fBlint\fR command.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-install\fR
Built, rebuilt and updated packages will be installed on the host
system. This results in a \(dqqueue\(dq style build, and packages may
not be 100% clean of unexpected dependencies. The default is for
packages not to be installed. This option conflicts with
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR and \fB\-\-preview\fR. This option has no effect
with the \fBremove\fR, \fBrevert\fR and \fBlint\fR commands.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-keep\-tmp\fR
Keep all temporary files in $TMP\fR and $TMPDIR\fR, for debugging
purposes.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-lint\fR[\fB=sb,dl,x,net,pkg,inst\fR]
Specifies quality checks to be performed: \fBsb\fR checks the
SlackBuild files, \fBdl\fR checks the download URLs, \fBx\fR prevents
access to the X GUI during the build, \fBnet\fR prevents access to the
network during the build, \fBpkg\fR checks the package and its
contents, and \fBinst\fR temporarily installs the package. With the
\fBremove\fR, \fBrevert\fR and \fBinfo\fR commands, this option has no
effect.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-nice=\fIN\fR
Adjust the niceness of the build process by integer \fIN\fR. The
default is 5 (like distcc).
.
.TP
\fB\-\-nowarning=\fIEREGEX\fR
Suppress warnings that match the GNU grep extended regular expression
\fIEREGEX\fR. Multiple warnings can be suppressed with an extended
regular expression of the form \(aq(textone|texttwo|...)\(aq.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-preview\fR
Print what would be added, updated, rebuilt or removed, and an estimate
of the total build time, but do not build or remove anything. This
option conflicts with \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR and \fB\-\-install\fR. This
option has no effect with the \fBlint\fR command.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-repo=\fIID\fR
Use the SlackBuild and package repository identified by \fIID\fR. The
filestore locations of the SlackBuild and package repositories are
defined in the configuration file
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR, where \fIID\fR is an identifier
for the repositories. The default repository \fIID\fR is \fBSBo\fR. For
details, see \fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR.
.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Display the output of each build process on the console during
execution. If \fB\-\-verbose\fR or \fB-v\fR is specified multiple
times, it is equivalent to \fB\-\-very-verbose\fR.
.
.TP
\fB\-vv\fR, \fB\-\-very\-verbose\fR
Forces \fBmake\fR and \fBcmake\fR to produce more verbose compilation
output when it is called by a SlackBuild. This option implies
\fB\-\-verbose\fR.
.
.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.
.
.
.PP
\fB0\fR - all operations completed
.PP
\fB1\fR - execution was interrupted
.PP
\fB2\fR - invocation usage error
.PP
\fB3\fR - the configuration file was not found
.PP
\fB4\fR - initialisation error
.PP
\fB5\fR - another instance is running
.PP
\fB6\fR - internal error, please report a bug
.
.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.
.
.PP
The behaviour of \fBslackrepo\fR is affected by the following
environment variables:
.
.PP
\fBREPO\fR, \fBCONFIGDIR\fR, \fBSBREPO\fR, \fBSRCREPO\fR,
\fBPKGREPO\fR, \fBPKGBACKUP\fR, \fBHINTDIR\fR, \fBDEFAULT_HINTDIR\fR,
\fBLOGDIR\fR, \fBDATABASE\fR, \fBTMP\fR, \fBSUBSTITUTE\fR,
\fBNUMJOBS\fR, \fBARCH\fR, \fBTAG\fR, \fBPKGTYPE\fR, \fBUSE_GENREPOS\fR
.
.PP
Each of these environment variables overrides the corresponding
configuration variable in the file
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR or \fI~/.slackreporc\fR. For
details, see \fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR.
.
.PP
\fBMAKEFLAGS\fR
.PP
The MAKEFLAGS variable is passed to each SlackBuild.  Its value will be
augmented by the value of NUMJOBS, so '-j' should not be specified in
MAKEFLAGS.
.
.PP
\fBTMPDIR\fR
.
.PP
\fBslackrepo\fR uses the directory specified by TMPDIR (default
\fI/tmp\fR) for its own temporary files. (However, SlackBuilds
conventionally use the directory specified by TMP, not TMPDIR.)
.
.PP
\fBVERBOSE\fR, \fBVERY_VERBOSE\fR, \fBCHROOT\fR, \fBDRY_RUN\fR,
\fBINSTALL\fR, \fBLINT\fR, \fBKEEP_TMP\fR, \fBCOLOR\fR, \fBNICE\fR,
\fBNOWARNING\fR
.
.PP
Each of these environment variables can be used to set the default for
the corresponding control argument. They override the corresponding
configuration variables in the file
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR or \fI~/.slackreporc\fR. For
details, see \fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR.
.
.PP
\fBSLACKREPO_COLORS\fR
.
.PP
This environment variable can be used to customise slackrepo's colour
palette. The value is a string similar to LS_COLORS or GCC_COLORS. The
default palette is
.
.EX
SLACKREPO_COLORS="error=01;31:warning=01;35:success=01;32:important=01:normal=00:\\
info=22;36:ok=00:build=22;32:skip=22;35:fail=22;31:updated=22;36"
.EE
.
.
.
.SH FILES
.
.
.
.TP
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_SBo.conf\fR
This file defines the configuration variables for the SBo repository;
see \fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR.
.
.TP
\fI~/.slackreporc\fR
This file can optionally be created to define the default repository ID
and override configuration variables set in
\fI/etc/slackrepo/slackrepo_ID.conf\fR; see \fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR.
.
.TP
\fI/etc/slackrepo/SBo/hintfiles\fR
This directory contains the local hintfiles for the SBo repository; see
\fBslackrepo.hint(5)\fR.
.
.
.
.SH NOTES
.
.
.
.PP
For best results, \fBslackrepo\fR is intended to be run on a
\(dqclean\(dq standard Slackware environment (like a \(dqbuild box\(dq
or a virtual machine), with a full installation of Slackware and no
additional packages (or very few). You can then use the package
repository to install the packages on other hosts (e.g. with
\fBslackpkg+\fR).
.
.PP
Packages are updated or rebuilt if required; for example, if a package
is being built, its dependencies will be updated and/or rebuilt if they
are out-of-date. A package is out-of-date if:
.
.RS
.
.IP \(bu 4
the git revision in the directory containing the SlackBuild has changed
since the package was built
.
.IP \(bu 4
the directory containing the SlackBuilds has untracked/uncommited
files (i.e., \(dqgit is dirty\(dq) and they are newer than the package
.
.IP \(bu 4
the hintfile has changed since the package was built
.
.IP \(bu 4
any of its direct dependencies has been updated since the package was
built
.
.IP \(bu 4
for kernel-dependent packages, the kernel version has changed since the
package was built
.
.IP \(bu 4
the version of Slackware has changed since the package was built
.
.RE
.
.PP
Changes in the SlackBuilds directory are classified as \(dqupdates\(dq,
which will cause directly depending items to be rebuilt. Other changes
are classified as \(dqrebuilds\(dq and do not cause depending items to
be rebuilt if/when they are processed. For example, ffmpeg depends on
x264, and transcode depends on ffmpeg. If x264 is updated, ffmpeg will
be rebuilt, but transcode will not be rebuilt. If x264 is rebuilt,
ffmpeg will not be rebuilt. If ffmpeg is updated, transcode will be
rebuilt.
.
.PP
When a package is rebuilt, and when a package is updated but its
version is unchanged, the BUILD number in the package repository is
always incremented (and the BUILD number in the SlackBuild file is
ignored).
.
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.
.
.
Build the whole SBo repository (you will need at least four days
and 80Gb of disk space):
.
.EX
# slackrepo build
.EE
.
.PP
Build shotwell, with all its dependencies:
.
.EX
# slackrepo build shotwell
.EE
.
.PP
Build and install shotwell and all its dependencies (this will NOT be a
clean build):
.
.EX
# slackrepo build \-\-install shotwell
.EE
.
.PP
Remove grass (note, its dependencies and dependers will not be
removed):
.
.EX
# slackpkg remove grass
.EE
.
.PP
Restore the backed-up grass packages (note, you can use this
to 'undelete' packages that were removed in error):
.
.EX
# slackpkg revert grass
.EE
.
.PP
Update all the academic/ packages in your package repository for SBo's
latest changes:
.
.EX
# slackrepo update academic
.EE
.
.PP
Do a \(dqdry run\(dq update of all your SBo packages, with verbose
messages:
.
.EX
# slackrepo update \-\-dry-run -v
.EE
.
.PP
Build colord (in the csb repo) with lint checks, do not store the built
package, and keep all the temporary files so you can investigate them:
.
.EX
# slackrepo build \-\-repo=csb \-\-debug colord
.EE
.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.
.
\fBslackrepo.conf(5)\fR, \fBslackrepo.hint(5)\fR, \fBinstallpkg(8)\fR,
\fBupgradepkg(8)\fR, \fBremovepkg(8)\fR, \fBpkgtool(8)\fR,
\fBslackpkg(8)\fR.
.
.
.
